Abstract
This dissertation presents the development of a software artefact intending to enhance the UK’s national cybersecurity posture among small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs). It was found that 54% of UK SMBs remain at risk for the cybersecurity posture of the United Kingdom due to a lack of knowledge, business strategy, and financial availability. This Project facilitates a solution that targets several findings on why SMB owners implement little to no cyber protection measures. Through a comprehensive literature review identifying gaps in the current landscape and adopting both empirical research and lab-controlled methodologies, the artefact has been developed with carefully considered and researched features documented in the design and implementation chapter. The aid of lab-controlled simulation testing of each feature that was created eventually led to the creation of v0.1, the foundation of the finished artefact. The Artefact enables SMB owners to conduct a self-assessment of their organisation’s security posture that will give them an overview of areas at Low, Medium and High risk; the program dynamically tailors the questions and suggestions to their specific industry. Within this report, key specifications and requirements have been developed to target each of the project's aims while keeping the main focus on the problem statement. A thorough software justification has been detailed in the report, alongside a detailed view of the implementation process. This report also gives insight into the analysis of test data and the results delivered to enrich the evaluation of the project's successes and areas for further improvement. With the creation of successfully developing a working Artefact prototype, this dissertation project strongly contributes to raising cybersecurity awareness by providing SMB owners with practical and accurate solutions. Additionally, this project identifies areas for further work and ongoing recommendations should the project be continued beyond this.
